Cultivation of Maize:

Prepare Soil for Planting:
Break up and loosen the top 8 inches of soil in a well-drained garden bed. Select a bed that receives six hours or more of direct sunlight, is rich in organic matter, and has a soil pH level between 5.5 and 7.0, advises Texas A&M Agrilife Extension.

Amend Soil for Planting:
Cover the bed with a 2-inch layer of compost and 1.5 pounds of 5-10-5 fertilizer per 50 square feet. Dig the compost and fertilizer into the top 6 inches of the loosened soil. Smooth the soil surface with a rake after amending.

Plant Corn Seeds:
Sow the corn seeds 1 to 2 inches deep. Space the seeds to 12 inches apart in a row, with the rows set 24 inches apart. Water the bed until the top 6 inches of soil are moist, then continue to water as needed so the soil doesn't dry out during the germination period. Corn usually sprouts within seven to 14 days.

Protect Corn Sprouts:
Cover the corn bed with a floating row cover after the sprouts emerge to prevent pest problems when growing corn in your backyard. This also provides light cold protection. Alternatively, place a plastic plant collar around each seedling to protect them from cutworms. Remove the cover when the stalks have five leaves.

Cover Soil with Mulch:
Cover the bed with a 2-inch layer of mulch once the corn is tall enough. Mulch retains moisture and prevents most weed problems.

Water Corn Plants:
Water corn two to three times weekly, or when the top 1 inch of soil just begins to dry out. Provide corn with about 2 inches of water each week. Avoid overhead watering, which can result in fungal problems. Instead, water the plants near soil level so the foliage remains as dry as possible.

Ensure Proper Pollination:
Shake the stalks lightly when they produce silks and begin to drop pollen. Shaking the stalks ensures more even pollen dispersal and better ear formation.

Harvest Corn Ears:
Harvest the corn when the silks dry, about 17 to 24 days after the first silk formation, advises Utah State University Extension. Ripe ears have green husks and the corn inside is firm and moist. Piercing a kernel will reveal milky liquid. Grab a ripe ear, pull it downward, and twist until it snaps from the stalks.

