STEPS IN GROUNDNUT FARMING/PEANUT FARMING:

1. Site Selection:
When choosing a site for planting groundnut, you must have in mind that groundnut produce their pods underground.Thus the topsoil must have a low clay content with a loose structure.This will make it easy for the reproductive roots to penetrate the soil freely.
So, the best type of soil for growing groundnut is sandy loam soil rich in organic matter.

2. Land Preparation:
Timely field preparation facilitates timely sowing, which in turn, ensures higher yield. Land preparation should ensure that all crop residues and weeds are completely buried.
In this stage, the field is cleared, after which, plowing and harrowing are carried out to make seedbeds of fine tilth for proper germination and growth of crops.Ploughing in summer is advantageous to kill weed seeds, hibernating insects.

3. Seed quality and the handling of peanut seed:
Groundnut seed is extremely susceptible to physical damage and should always be handled with care. Damaged or split kernels will not germinate and grow.

4. Planting the Seeds:
The soil should be warm at the time of planting. It is not nice to plant groundnut very early in the morning. For better germination, it is best to let the soil warm up.

5. Spacing:
Plant your peanut seeds on a ridge or on the flat ground depending on the nature of the soil.  
If you are planting the variety with small seeds, the spacing should be at 50cm between rows and about 30cm between plants.
Large-seeded groundnut types are spaced at 75cm between rows and 45cm between plants.

6. Intercropping and Crop Rotation:
When growing groundnuts on a piece of land, intercrop it with cereals and grains. Cereals and grains help in efficient nutrient utilization and reduces soil-borne diseases.

7. Planting Depth for groundnut:
The correct planting depth of 5-7.5cm ensures that the plant develops and produces optimally. A seed which germinates slowly as a result of deep planting takes longer to emerge and a substandard plant will be produced.

8. Weed control in peanut farming:
Weeds compete with the crop for moisture, nutrition, light, and space. Effective weed control implies good control of weed throughout the growing season.

9. Harvesting:
It takes only about three months for groundnut to mature. Harvesting usually consists of a series of operations comprising digging, lifting, windrowing, stocking, and threshing.

10. Processing Peanuts into other products:
A lot of machines are available for processing groundnuts, including; groundnut sheller, and groundnut oil expeller. With these two machines, you can successfully process large quantities of groundnuts into the oil.
