Planting the Potatoes:

1. CHOOSE YOUR VARIETY OF POTATO:
The type of potato you choose to grow will not only affect when you need to plant it, but also how long it will take to grow. It is best to always purchase seed potatoes from the garden centre to grow. 

2. CHIT YOUR POTATOES:
‘Chtting is a method of preparing tubers for planting which breaks their dormancy artificially and initiates growth,’ explains Francesco Ponziani, Horticulturist at RHS Garden Harlow Carr. ‘Reducing the time in which potatoes are ready to harvest.
Chit your potatoes by placing them in an egg box or tray. Position them in a cool light place, ideally a windowsill without any direct sunlight. Leave them for about six weeks, until they begin to produce shoots. 
Francesco recommends allowing only four to five of the sturdiest shoots to grow. When these shoots are around 2.5 cm they are ready to plant out.  
3. PLANT THE POTATOES:
Potatoes grow in most soil conditions, as long as it is not too soggy or compact. However, the richer the soil the better the crop, so it is a good idea to prepare the soil by incorporating a good quality compost into it.
Choose somewhere that is sunny and frost-free. ‘Try to avoid growing them in soil where potatoes have grown for two years previously in succession, otherwise this will increase the risk of disease,’ adds Francesco. 
The traditional planting method is to dig a trench and plant the potatoes 10 to 12 cm deep and between 30 to 37.5 cm apart depending on the variety you are planting, with the shoots pointing upwards. Add compost so that the potatoes are covered. Keep the compost well-watered in dry weather until the tubers start to form.
However, small varieties of potatoes can be grown in a container. Just make sure the potatoes have enough space to grow upwards as well as downwards. 

4. EARTH UP YOUR POTATOES:
When the green shoots reach between 20 to 30 cm tall add extra soil around the stems to stop any light reaching any potatoes that are growing closer to the surface. This process is called earthing-up and prevents your potato crop turning green. You will need to continue doing this as your potatoes grow. 
However, you can skip this step by growing the potatoes under black polythene. This is a low maintenance planting method as you won’t need to earth up, and there is no digging involved in harvesting the potatoes from just below the soil level. 

5. HARVEST THE POTATOES:
Dig up the whole plant with a fork or spade, being careful not to spear any potatoes as you go. ‘Make sure that you reject any green potatoes as these can be poisonous.