Steps to Grow a Tea Plant:

1 .Preparing the Seeds:

Buy Camellia sinensis seeds for best results. There are two main types of tea plants. Sinensis is recommended because it is hardy and you can make black, green, and white tea from its leaves. You can buy seeds from the local nursery or order them online.
Start with the plant if you want to jumpstart the growing process.Soak the seeds. Put your seeds into a bowl or container of water. Make sure there is enough water so that the seeds are completely submerged. Let the seeds soak for 24 to 48 hours. Allowing them to soak helps the seeds absorb water, which speeds up the process of germination.Put the seeds into containers with vermiculite. Take the seeds out of the water, and place 2 to 3 seeds each into separate containers.Keep the vermiculite damp. During the 6 to 8 weeks, check the vermiculite daily to see how dry or damp it is. If it’s dry, water the seeds. Do not soak the seeds. The soil should stay damp at all times.

2 .Cultivating the Plant:

Separate and plant the leaves in pots. The seeds should begin to sprout a few seedlings after 6 to 8 weeks of germination. You should have about 3 or 4 leaves. Put each seedling into a separate pot that has been filled with acidic soil—a pH range of 6 to 6.5 is ideal. Move the pots to a warm and partially shaded place. Spray the soil regularly to keep it moist. 
Repot the plant or plant them outside. You will need to move the tea plants once they reach about 8 inches (20 cm) in height. If you put them in new pots, make sure the pots will be big enough for plenty of root growthPlant the tea during the spring or fall for best results.
Water the plant every day. Tea plants are hardy and rarely need to be fertilized. They do, however, need to be watered regularly.
Protect the plant from frost. Tea plants grow best in warm locations, but they can survive the cold and droughts. It is, however, a good idea to move the plants to a warmer location during freezes.
Wait a few years for the plant to mature. It will take about three years before the tea plants reach maturity. This means that you won’t be able to harvest leaves during this time. Once the plant reaches about 3 feet (1 meter), it should be ready for harvest.

3 .Harvesting the Tea Leaves:

Pick 2 or 3 bright green leaves. Once the plant is about 3 feet (1 meter) high, it will soon be time for harvest.To harvest, use your finger and thumb to gently pluck 3 or 4 bright green leaves off of the plant.These green leaves are ready to be turned into tea. 
Harvest several times during warmer weather.Prune the plant back to 3 feet (1 meter) when you see it start to grow above that height.
Pick young leaves before they open for white tea. White tea is made from leaves that haven’t fully opened. Preferably, pick the leaves on a warm day.Make green tea. To make green tea, put the bright green leaves out in a shady location for a few hours.
Produce black tea. Roll the freshly picked leaves between your fingers until they turn dark. Then, spread the leaves out on a flat surface and leave them in a cool location for 2 or 3 days.Turn your leaves into oolong tea. Allow the fresh leaves to sit in the sun for 30 minutes to an hour. After that, bring the leaves inside and allow them to sit for up to 10 hours, mixing them every hour.Make your tea. Put several leaves inside of a tea bag or tea infuser. Place the bag into boiling water. Allow the tea to steep for at least 3 minutes and remove the bag. To sweeten, add sugar, honey, or artificial sweetener. Then, enjoy your tea